## About ConfSched

ConfSched is an application that will help generate schedules for academic conferences. It can be broken up into three different technologies. First is OpenConf open source academic conference preplanning web application. Second is ConfSched web application. Third is a C++ application. These three technologies combine to create ConfSched.

### Workflow

The workfow of the application can be broken down into 5 phases.

#### Installation

The installation phase involves installing the three components (OpenConf, ConfSched web app, and ConfSched C++ app). It also involves setting up the databases and setting some general setting such as basic conference information. The admin account is created for use in future phases.

#### Preplanning

The preplanning phase is the second phase. In this phase, the admin adds topics, adds committee members, and allows authors to submit papers for review. Committee members can review the papers. During this phase, papers will be marked as accepted. This phase utilizies OpenConf. All data is stored in the OpenConf database. 

In the conclusion of this step, the data is copied over to tables within ConfSched's web application. Authors with accepted papers get copied over into their own new table with a new id. There is also a table created that maps authors to their accepted papers using their new author id. Papers and topics do not get copied over and are referenced from OpenConf's tables inside of the web app. 

Emails will also go out during at the conclusion of this step alerting user's of their ability to create an account. This goes to committee members and authors with an accepted paper. Upon registration, these users get an entry added to the users table that notes if they are an author, committee member, or both. This information will be used to determine what they see on their dashboard upon registration.

#### Committee Sourcing
At the beginning of this phase, an email will go out to all committee members that have registered alerting them that they can participate in the committee sourcing phase. In this phase, committee members will be able to see all the accepted papers and categorize them. They can create as many categories as possible and put as many papers as they want into each category. The categories are stored in the <code>categories</code> table. Mappings of papers to categories is found in the <code>categories_papers</code> table.

#### Author Sourcing

At the beginning of this phase, an email will go out to all registred authors with an accepted paper alerting them that they can participate in the author sourcing phase. In this phase, authors will provide feedback on accepted papers with the same topic as their accepted paper(s). This feedback comes in the form of two questions:

1. Would you be interested in attending the session for this paper?
2. Is this paper relevant to your paper?

Response values are:

1. Yes - 1
2. No - 2
3. No Opinion - 3

If the author answers 'Yes' then 1 would be the value recorded. If they answered 'No', the value 2 would be recorded. If they answered "No Opinion", the value 3 would be recorded.

These values are stored in the <code>author_feedback</code> table.

The author sourcing component utilizes AngularJS for its implementation. You can find more information about AngularJS [here](https://angularjs.org/).

#### Scheduling

The last and final stage is scheduling. In this stage, admin can add rooms and session information. Room information is added using a CSV list and is stored in the <code>rooms</code> table.

Once the rooms have been setup, users can setup sessions. Sessions are stored in the <code>sessions</code> table.

Admins can also specify that certain authors are unavailable at certain sessions. This information is stored in the <code>authors_sessions_constraints</code> table.

Admins can also map author accounts to other author accounts. This is helpful because authors are identified by email. If a author used multiple emails during the preplanning phase, they will have multiple author accounts (one for each email). This is fine during the other steps but we becomes a problem when generating a schedule. So the admin can go in and map accounts together. This will go through and replace any reference ot the map account with the account marked as the master. This information is stored in the <code>author_map</code> table.

The actual schedule is generated by making a call to the C++ program. The web app will execute the C++ program and wait until it gets a response back. Once it gets a response back, it will pull the data written in <code>schedule_data</code> and <code>schedules</code> tables by the C++ program.
